---
layout: blog
title: Font Design test
meta: My Font
category: calligraphy
---

<h1>Making a Font From Hand Drawn Letters<h1>

I'm designing a font. Mostly for fun and to compine two of my istrests computer science and calligraphy.

<h1>Design<h1>
I have decided on a hand-drawn calligrahy styled font in a broad nib style, heavily influnced on a Bastard Secretary script. For more information on the styles I'm using for influence I would recomend The Art of Calligraphy by David Harris a great refrence book      

<h2>Software<h2>

[Inkapescape](https://inkscape.org/en/) free vector graphics editing software

[FontForge](https://fontforge.github.io/en-US/) free and open-source font editor.

<h2>Process<h2>
	*Draw
	*Upload
	*Initial edit
	*Vectorive
	*Edit Vectors
	*FontForge
	*Validate
With your favourite writing instrument and paper create a letter. I use my pilot parallel 6.0mm

Take a picture upload it, and if need you can do some initial editing. I use adobe lightroom to crop it to a square and turn up the contrast between the ink and paper.

Open in Inkscape and path > TraceBitmap > Ok
You should now have a vector copy of your letter on top of the image. You can delete the non-vector one.

You are going to want to Path > Simplifie  because you letter is made from way to many vectors right now and FontForge will probavly crash if you tried to import in that form (it is free and open source)

Its time to touch up some vectors Edit Paths by nodes(F2) it an option on the side bar. Start by deleting nodes that ar not attached to the main letter. I would recomend trying to fix the look of the letter as much as you can in Inkscape before move to FontForge. Save your vector letter as a *.SVG

Open FontForge click on the box for the letter you want yo work on File > Import selct your *.SVG vector file

It posible that your done now but from my experence this is unliky and and  validation of the font will fail.

Element > FindProblems > Set All > Ok will  is quick way check if there are problems

Befor that I would atleast do these things

Set EmSize

File > Prefrences > New Font and set NewEmSize to 1024 (it is best to be a power of 2)

Round vector end points to integers

Element > Round > ToInt

Set end points at Extremas

Element > add Extrema

This will hopefully fix most problems

Intersecting Paths is probably will cause the most headachs and all you can really do is zoom in  and fix any vectors that crossover other vectors

Element > FindProblems > Paths > Intersecting Paths > Ok should let you know what vectors are guilty of this.  

##Validate and Test
From the main screen of FontForge Element > Validate should tell you that your font is OK

File > Generate Font should be able the compile a *.TTC file (or one of the font formats if you want) by clicking on this font file you should be able to instal it a test it out in a text editor (even if you only have a single letter created)
